---
title: Config
description: Configure Nuxt Auto Form module
---

You do not need to configure Nuxt Auto Form, but you can do so for finer-grained control
you can override the config in the `nuxt.config.ts` file or per form basis.

The configuration is merged using [defu](https://github.com/unjs/defu).

## Global Configuration

You can set global configuration options for the module in your `nuxt.config.ts` file in the `autoForm` field
Here you should define your universal styles like submit button color.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@norbiros/nuxt-auto-form'],
  autoForm: {
    // Options
  }
})
```

## Per-Form Configuration

Sometimes you may want to override the global configuration for individual forms.
You can do this by passing a `config` prop to the `<AutoForm>` component:

```vue
<template>
  <AutoForm
    :schema="schema"
    :config="{
      submit: {
        component: 'CustomSubmitButton',
      },
    }"
  />
</template>
```

## Fields

### `components`

::caution
If you use string to define the component it **must** be [globally registered](https://nuxt.com/docs/4.x/guide/directory-structure/app/components#dynamic-components) to work.
To do this, name your component with the `.global.vue` suffix, or place it in `components/global/` directory.
::

This is one of the most important configuration options.
It allows you to specify which Vue component should be used to render each field type in the form.

When a field in a form is rendered, the module automatically generates a key:
```ts
zodType._def.format ?? zodType._def.type
```

This key is used to look up the component to render the field from the `components` mapping.
By providing a custom mapping you can override or add support for additional field types.

```ts-type
components: {
  email: () => ({ component: 'UInput', componentProps: { type: 'email' } }),
}
```

::tip
For default implementation and inspiration consult the [source code](https://github.com/Norbiros/nuxt-auto-form/tree/master/src/utils/components_map.ts).
::

### `submit`

This option allows you to customize the submit button used in forms.
Consult the [Submit Button](./submit_button) documentation for more information.

```ts-type
{
  component?: undefined
  props?: Record<string, any>
}
```
